 
FRASER RACKHAM 
Director of Technology 
📞  07791 615 479        📧 frackham@googlemail.com       📍 Stockport, England 
  ℹ  hƩps://www.linkedin.com/in/frackham/ 
 
EXPERIENCE 
Director of Technology 
Speakers for Schools     08/2025 - Present    
• Responsible for all technology delivery across the charity, managing a £1M+ budget 
and leading engineering, QA, UX, product, data, and IT operaƟons. 
• Lead technology strategy serving 35,000 young people annually, aligning technical 
roadmap with the charity's 5-year strategic plan and maintaining 99.9% plaƞorm 
upƟme. 
• Accountable for data protecƟon, GDPR compliance, and safeguarding requirements. 
Member of Senior Leadership Team contribuƟng to organizaƟonal strategy, business 
planning, and funding decisions. 
• Prototyping white-labelling soluƟon for local authority partnerships to expand 
employer reach and service impact. 
 
Head of Engineering 
Speakers for Schools     05/2023 – 08/2025    
• Led engineering teams through contractor reducƟon saving £600k+ while sustaining 
morale, retenƟon, and delivery quality.  
• Achieved high-performing operaƟon aligned with DORA research: reduced release 
frequency from 2 months to 2 weeks while maintaining 99.95% upƟme and low 
change failure rates, improving cost-per-user and NPS scores. 
• Member of Programme Board, providing costed technical proposals and architectural 
opƟons for funder investments. 
• Led architectural strategy implemenƟng event-driven architecture, deprecaƟng legacy 
services, and removing all VMs in favor of SaaS alternaƟves—eliminaƟng signiﬁcant 
security threat vectors. 
• Sustained quality outcomes as QA team reduced from 4 to 1, tracked via external pen 
tests, internal bugs, and Azure Defender scores. 
 
Development Manager 
Speakers for Schools     03/2022 - 04/2023    
• Line management of developers, QA and data specialists (and technical leads of areas) 
with aƩenƟon to professional development, targeted feedback and knowledge 
sharing. Our team had the highest retenƟon rates in the charity over a 3-year period 
while sƟll delivering successfully on our business plan each year. 
• Remained an individual contributor and code reviewer, delivering features such as 
landing page dashboards and a C# geographical data API, creaƟng an internal young 
person need score model using ADF and SQL scripts, and integraƟng with HR systems 
APIs across FE, BE, and Data spaces in the technology team estate. In addiƟon, was 
principal developer for most of our conƟnuous integraƟon and delivery pipelines 
(CI/CD) which contribute to our minimal downƟme for users during deployments. 
• Collaborated regularly with internal and external stakeholders—including programme 
and product specialists, key technology vendors, consultants, and others (e.g., Azure 
CSP , recruiters)—to present security outcomes to the leadership group and gain buy-in 
for extending pen-test coverage to systems not owned by our team. 
• Advocated for and managed end-of-life of a mobile applicaƟon and handoﬀ from our 
external contractors to internal team ownership of the product, saving the charity on 
the cost of maintenance. 
• Provide strategic tooling such as skills gap analysis using a skills matrix, analysis of 
DORA metrics and departmental KPIs and the facilitaƟon of blameless postmortems 
(both inside and outside of the department), leading to a focus on areas with single 
points of failure and targeted capacity planning for quarterly delivery. 
• Implemented integraƟon with the Groupcall Xporter API, including an onboarding 
experience for headteacher signoﬀ, for an MIS trial integraƟon. Planned, led, and 
monitored a successful trial with several schools, on the back of sustained engagement 
with the vendor. 
• Guided the team through disrupƟons to morale and psychological safety, parƟcularly 
while working with contractors based in Ukraine during the early days of the war. 
Professional Proﬁle 
I’m a proacƟve soŌware engineering leader and product 
delivery specialist, with a strong passion for enhancing 
team dynamics, fostering professional growth, and 
opƟmising development processes.  
At the core of my approach is DevOps-driven automaƟon 
and collaboraƟon, enabling streamlined deployments, 
conƟnuous feedback, and faster, safer soŌware delivery. 
I became a soŌware developer aŌer a previous career as a 
secondary school Data Manager and Senior Leader for 
non-teaching staﬀ. Solving everyday ineﬃciencies for Ɵme-
poor teachers with simple automaƟons inspired me to 
pursue soŌware engineering full-Ɵme. 
Since then, I’ve led eﬀorts to scale delivery, harden system 
reliability, and reduce operaƟonal overhead across 
engineering teams through smart operaƟonal leadership. I 
love turning ‘there has to be a beƩer way’ into a 
beauƟfully automated soluƟon and replacing fricƟon with 
ﬂow wherever I can. 
This CV only provides a summary of the technologies I’ve 
used and of my background in schools and educaƟon —
please get in touch if you'd like a fuller view of these areas. 
 
Competencies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS 
Cost-saving IniƟaƟves 
Saved over £600k by matching team size to our 
charity needs. 
 
Improved Release Cycle  
Reduced release frequency from 2 months to 2 
weeks without increasing the change failure rate. 
 
Enhanced System Stability 
Achieved 99.95% upƟme, reducing cost per-user 
and boosƟng NPS year-on-year. 
 
Flexible Team Player  
As both a full stack developer and leader, I 
regularly pick up the most challenging or uncertain 
elements of delivery and direcƟon, keeping our 
team on track and well-respected for keeping our 
commitments. 
Technical DirecƟon 
Team Management 
DevOps & CI/CD 
NET stack (C#) 
AutomaƟon 
AI  
FE Development 
Agile Methodologies 
 

 
 
EXPERIENCE 
Team Lead (Youth Card Mobile App) 
Speakers for Schools     06/2021 - 02/2022    
• Ran a contractor-heavy team to recover and launch a cross-plaƞorm mobile app 
serving discounts and opportuniƟes to young people in state educaƟon, delivering on a 
challenging 6-month Ɵmeline from a non-funcƟonal, insecure and incomplete app. 
• Implemented release management and change control pracƟces, managed technical 
debt and rearchitected the approach to the exisƟng mobile applicaƟon to increase 
delivery speed and quality, allowing a new team to get to grips with this applicaƟon. 
• Surfaced technical debt via ‘quality views’ (data-driven component views of technical 
debt and quality challenges), making the internal case for resolving quality issues in 
outdated APIs and the Xamarin mobile applicaƟon, rather than solely focusing on 
feature delivery—ulƟmately reducing quality issues over Ɵme. 
• Drove GDPR-compliant design decisions, regular pen tesƟng, and cloud security 
posture improvements across all environments. 
 
SoŌware Engineer 
Speakers for Schools     11/2020 - 05/2021    
• Full stack development of legacy applicaƟon and replacement with a microservices-
based portal. 
• Led the full recovery of legacy infrastructure aŌer a signiﬁcant outage in my ﬁrst 
month, demonstraƟng strong problem-solving abiliƟes and resilience under pressure. 
• Played a key role in producing the business case for a complete rebuild of the core 
work experience portal, which remains in long-term use. 
 
SoŌware Developer 
Chess ICT       03/2020 - 10/2020   
• Full stack development of mulƟple related legacy and greenﬁeld portals (cloud and on-
prem), using a mix of challenging, hard-to-change classic ASP applicaƟons and more 
modern, maintainable ASP soluƟons. 
• Billed client work for a Teams chatbot that responded via natural language using Azure 
/ Azure CogniƟve Services, leveraging exisƟng FAQ content to answer user quesƟons. 
 
SoŌware Engineer 
BeyondTrust      07/2019 - 03/2020   
• Full stack development of exisƟng privileged access management soluƟon using Agile 
and TDD pracƟces, leading to a global, mulƟ-tenant SaaS iteraƟon of the exisƟng 
product using Azure, ARM templates, Azure DevOps and bespoke scripƟng tasks. 
• PoC work on an Azure developer portal, triggering deployments using the Azure 
DevOps REST API to allow orchestraƟon of individual customer instances of releases.  
• Full stack development of administraƟon hub for managing cross-system seƫ ngs for 
Finance systems using C# APIs, EnƟty Framework and a SQL backend. 
• Responsible for UI (Angular / TypeScript in Visual Studio Code), API/Code (C#), and 
database (SQL ﬁnance systems—mainly insurance policies) across all companies within 
the group. 
 
Junior Full Stack Developer 
Peninsula Business Services     10/2018 - 07/2019   
Junior Developer 
Peninsula Business Services     03/2018 - 10/2018   
Graduate Developer 
Peninsula Business Services     09/2017 - 03/2018  
• Placed with Salesforce team to lead on a data migraƟon project for an acquisiƟon, a 
migraƟon of 7 million customer records from an undocumented, fragmented SAP 
system to an exisƟng live Salesforce org via SQL Server/SSIS, meeƟng the challenging 
acquisiƟon compliance deadline. 
• Developed a Salesforce logging applicaƟon used across 3 companies' Salesforce orgs to 
monitor declaraƟve (ﬂow and process) and code system failures (asynchronous and 
synchronous logging), as well as a Salesforce GDPR request handler using a self-
developed reﬂecƟon library in Apex to handle dynamic datasets within restricƟve 
Salesforce API limits.  
• Raised C# NUnit test coverage from below 10% to above 90% supporƟng a team wide 
push on refactoring legacy components and allowing modernisaƟon and removal of 
outdated services. 
 
 
TIME AND FOCUS 
 
 
SKILLS AND TECH 
Agile, Angular, Azure (ARM Templates, Azure AcƟve 
Directory/Entra, Azure Data Factory, Azure 
FuncƟons, Azure SQL, Azure Web ApplicaƟons), 
Azure Devops, C#, CLI, Cypress, E2E tesƟng, EnƟty 
Framework, GitHub, Github AcƟons, Github 
Copilot, Jasmine, Jenkins, JIRA family (JIRA, 
Conﬂuence, Compass, JIRA App development), 
Karma, npm, NUnit, Playwright, Postman, 
PowerShell, Protractor, React, REST, Salesforce 
(Development, Flows, Processes), SAP , Selenium, 
SonarQube/SonarCloud, SOQL, SQL, staƟc analysis, 
SSIS, TypeScript, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, 
WebDriver, WordPress, YAML 
 
EDUCATION 
MSc InformaƟcs (Computer Science) 
Kingston University    2011 - 2013  
DisƟncƟon  
MA Applied LinguisƟcs 
University of Noƫ ngham   2004 - 2005  
 
BA English Studies 
University of Noƫ ngham   2001 - 2004 
2:1 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXPERIENCE 
Data and Assessment Manager 
The Barlow RC High School      09/2016 - 09/2017  
• Completely replaced criƟcal assessment data analysis systems on MIS within ﬁrst half 
term to account for lack of exisƟng systems. This allowed all teaching staﬀ to see the 
achievement of each student, at all Ɵmes. 
 
Lead School Business Manager 
Parliament Hill School      06/2014 - 08/2016  
School Performance Data Manager (Concurrent) 
Parliament Hill School      01/2014 - 08/2016  
• During this Ɵme, I was a staﬀ governor (liaising with support staﬀ as their 
representaƟve on the governing body), as well as delivering my own training to 
governors on RAISEonline, the use of data and data-driven governance, receiving 
feedback that it was ‘the best training on data I’ve been to’. I also worked alongside 
the chair on a trial evidencing the NGA’s 20 self-evaluaƟon quesƟons. 
• Managed MIS for staﬀ and student data and supported wider staﬀ body with data 
literacy, oﬃce skills and training. Legal responsibility for DPA/FOI compliance. Member 
of senior leadership team reporƟng to the Headteacher, and line management of 
Finance, HR, Premises, Admin, Cover and Data funcƟons.  
• Responsibility for data management and systems such as Alps, 4Matrix, RAISEonline 
and SIMS Assessment (MIS), including designing reports such as compliance returns 
(determining school funding) and responsibility for tracking of KS3-5 student data. 
• Collaborated with data managers across the LaSwap 6th form consorƟum, including 
supporƟng on complex cross-school reporƟng on results day, ensuring that results 
were delivered accurately and on-Ɵme across all 4 schools in the same 24hr Ɵmeframe 
that single schools had. 
• Set up and led the Camden Data Manager’s forum, sharing updates and technical 
brieﬁngs, as well as supporƟng other schools with quesƟons on census returns. 
• Developed bespoke soluƟons for generaƟng end of year academic reports and data 
dashboards per subject area (using self-taught VBA in Excel and Word), reducing Ɵme 
taken for staﬀ analysis from ~2 days to 4 hours per head of department, each year, and 
ensuring that key groups (such as FSM, G&T, SEND and literacy intervenƟon groups), 
innovaƟng over and above the iniƟal one-oﬀ request. 
• Worked on strategic planning, including introducing a risk management heatmap and 
successful external audits of Finance, HR and Data, as well as an analysis of non-
teaching staﬀ roles prior to a restructure and the use of automated reporƟng tools to 
reduce workload at all levels of the organisaƟon. 
• Outreach acƟng as a trainer for a local ‘requires improvement’ school, developing their 
data management pracƟces, and presented to moderate (50+) audiences on schools’ 
data. I have also presented at the Capita SIMS naƟonal partnership conference on 
using data during a restructure of non-teaching staﬀ. 
 
 
Director of Data Analysis 
Grey Court School 
 10/2012 - 01/2014   
• Worked with teachers to understand their data, impact and eﬃciencies oﬀered by our 
systems for their work and impact on young people across internal and external 
systems. 
• Appointment to the senior management team with wider leadership responsibiliƟes, 
including creaƟng and tracking a project implementaƟon plan for the introducƟon of a 
6th form and owning the risk register heatmap. 
• Development of a dashboard for the leadership group, pushing for data-driven 
decisions using a scorecard approach and using research from TuŌe and Few on data 
visualizaƟon, data-ink and the eﬀecƟve representaƟon of informaƟon. 
• Measurement of school and naƟonal policies, such as the impact of new KS4 
accountability measures, on whole school areas ranging from Ɵmetabling and 
curriculum implicaƟons to in-year internal assessment. 
 
